README.md, before:

# README

This project is about reverse engineering the pokewalker, a device designed for use with the Pokemon HeartGold and SoulSilver games.

The end goal is to hopefully be able to have the foundations to emulate its behaviour, such as:
- With a phone app that communicates to the walker/game through IR
- A full emulator to run the pokewalker software on.
- Custom hardware that emulates the pokewalker with extra features. (Raspberry Pi/Arduino app?)

Documentation/findings can be found in the `docs/` directory of this repo.
Dumps can be found in the `dumps/` directory.
The dumps can be read as a binary file (.bin), a hex file (.txt) or as an image (.png).
The images look best at the 16-pixel width.

The hex for the 64K ROM is in `dumps/hex/64k-full-rom.txt`.
Corresponding binary file in `dumps/bin/` and image file in `dumps/img/`.

----

## What's Known
- The main MCU is a Renesas H8/38606F chip with 48K flash ROM and 2K RAM.
- The code is stored in the internal 48K MCU flash.
- The images are stored on the external 64K eeprom.
- Most text is stored as an image file on 64k ROM, except dynamic data like response text.
- Most images are stored as two 1-bit images, which are then presumably overlayed to give a 3-tone image. Probably a similar system to the gen 1 character sprites.

See `docs/` for more info.

## Next steps/To be done
- Get a ROM dump of the internal 48K ROM which contains all the code.
	- Decapping and looking at the MCU under a microscope might be the best approach.
	- Worth looking into the TX/RX signals, it's likely just echoing from the IR but it might be able to be exploited to run arbitrary code if intercepted.
	- Research on chip/code exploits to get a dump might be another option. "power glitch attack" was the recommended googling to learn more (thanks to `u/DarkJezter`)
	- It's a long shot, but might be able to intercept the tx/rx signal and somehow get the MCU to write the 48K ROM contents to the external EEPROM.
- Decode IR signal
	- Structure (See GBA Temp forum thread)
	- Protocol
- Might be able to write code to the internal ROM somehow.

----

## References 

### Other Discussion on the topic
1. [GBA Temp forum post](https://gbatemp.net/threads/pokewalker-hacking.419462/)
2. [Japanese article on the hardware](http://nds.jpn.org/pokegs/pokew.html)
3. [Another japanese article giving info on the external eeprom](https://wandoli.blogspot.com/2013/01/blog-post.html)

### Renesas/Hardware Documentation
1. [H8/38602R Group Hardware Manual](https://pdf1.alldatasheet.com/datasheet-pdf/view/249752/RENESAS/H838600R.html)
2. [H8/38606F Group Addition Notes](https://www.renesas.com/br/ja/doc/products/mpumcu/tu/001/tnh8a414ae.pdf)
3. [H8/300H Series Programming Manual](https://cdn.hackaday.io/files/12686542757824/PrgMnl.pdf)
4. [H8/300H Series Software Manual](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/doc/products/mpumcu/001/rej09b0213_h8300h.pdf)
5. [Official H8 Series Programming Manual](https://www.renesas.com/cn/en/doc/products/mpumcu/001/e602025_h8300.pdf)
6. [E8a Emulator manual](https://www.renesas.com/br/ja/doc/products/tool/doc/001/r20ut0637ej0300_h8300h_slp.pdf)
7. [M95512RP Flash datasheet](https://pdf1.alldatasheet.com/datasheet-pdf/view/245987/STMICROELECTRONICS/M95512RMN3P.html)


### Tools/software (Need a Renesas account to download)
1. [e2 Studio](https://www.renesas.com/eu/en/software/D4001318.html)
2. [C/C++ Compiler for the H8 Series](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/software-tools/tools/compiler-assembler/compiler-package-for-h8sx-h8s-h8-family.html#downloads)
3. [C/C++ Compiler user's manual](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/doc/products/tool/002/rej10j2039_r0c40008xsw07rum.pdf)
4. [Stack Overflow question about a disassembler](https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/1684/are-there-any-free-or-low-cost-disassemblers-for-the-renesas-h8-family-of-proces)

Commit message:

Added link to Discord server

README.md, after:

# README

This project is about reverse engineering the pokewalker, a device designed for use with the Pokemon HeartGold and SoulSilver games.

The end goal is to hopefully be able to have the foundations to emulate its behaviour, such as:
- With a phone app that communicates to the walker/game through IR
- A full emulator to run the pokewalker software on.
- Custom hardware that emulates the pokewalker with extra features. (Raspberry Pi/Arduino app?)

Join the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/ymbTMsS) for more discussion on the topic.

Documentation/findings can be found in the `docs/` directory of this repo.
Dumps can be found in the `dumps/` directory.
The dumps can be read as a binary file (.bin), a hex file (.txt) or as an image (.png).
The images look best at the 16-pixel width.

The hex for the 64K ROM is in `dumps/hex/64k-full-rom.txt`.
Corresponding binary file in `dumps/bin/` and image file in `dumps/img/`.

----

## What's Known
- The main MCU is a Renesas H8/38606F chip with 48K flash ROM and 2K RAM.
- The code is stored in the internal 48K MCU flash.
- The images are stored on the external 64K eeprom.
- Most text is stored as an image file on 64k ROM, except dynamic data like response text.
- Most images are stored as two 1-bit images, which are then presumably overlayed to give a 3-tone image. Probably a similar system to the gen 1 character sprites.

See `docs/` for more info.

## Next steps/To be done
- Get a ROM dump of the internal 48K ROM which contains all the code.
	- Decapping and looking at the MCU under a microscope might be the best approach.
	- Worth looking into the TX/RX signals, it's likely just echoing from the IR but it might be able to be exploited to run arbitrary code if intercepted.
	- Research on chip/code exploits to get a dump might be another option. "power glitch attack" was the recommended googling to learn more (thanks to `u/DarkJezter`)
	- It's a long shot, but might be able to intercept the tx/rx signal and somehow get the MCU to write the 48K ROM contents to the external EEPROM.
- Decode IR signal
	- Structure (See GBA Temp forum thread)
	- Protocol
- Might be able to write code to the internal ROM somehow.

----

## References 

### Other Discussion on the topic
1. [GBA Temp forum post](https://gbatemp.net/threads/pokewalker-hacking.419462/)
2. [Japanese article on the hardware](http://nds.jpn.org/pokegs/pokew.html)
3. [Another japanese article giving info on the external eeprom](https://wandoli.blogspot.com/2013/01/blog-post.html)

### Renesas/Hardware Documentation
1. [H8/38602R Group Hardware Manual](https://pdf1.alldatasheet.com/datasheet-pdf/view/249752/RENESAS/H838600R.html)
2. [H8/38606F Group Addition Notes](https://www.renesas.com/br/ja/doc/products/mpumcu/tu/001/tnh8a414ae.pdf)
3. [H8/300H Series Programming Manual](https://cdn.hackaday.io/files/12686542757824/PrgMnl.pdf)
4. [H8/300H Series Software Manual](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/doc/products/mpumcu/001/rej09b0213_h8300h.pdf)
5. [Official H8 Series Programming Manual](https://www.renesas.com/cn/en/doc/products/mpumcu/001/e602025_h8300.pdf)
6. [E8a Emulator manual](https://www.renesas.com/br/ja/doc/products/tool/doc/001/r20ut0637ej0300_h8300h_slp.pdf)
7. [M95512RP Flash datasheet](https://pdf1.alldatasheet.com/datasheet-pdf/view/245987/STMICROELECTRONICS/M95512RMN3P.html)


### Tools/software (Need a Renesas account to download)
1. [e2 Studio](https://www.renesas.com/eu/en/software/D4001318.html)
2. [C/C++ Compiler for the H8 Series](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/software-tools/tools/compiler-assembler/compiler-package-for-h8sx-h8s-h8-family.html#downloads)
3. [C/C++ Compiler user's manual](https://www.renesas.com/us/en/doc/products/tool/002/rej10j2039_r0c40008xsw07rum.pdf)
4. [Stack Overflow question about a disassembler](https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/1684/are-there-any-free-or-low-cost-disassemblers-for-the-renesas-h8-family-of-proces)
